now to Israel where smaller exchanges of
fire are continuing near the country's
northern border with Lebanon a day after
militant group Hezbollah and Israel
traded aerial attacks Israel claims to
have destroyed thousands of Hezbollah
rocket launchers in southern Lebanon
Israeli military said its preemptive
strikes would prevent a wider escalation
of the conflict asbah has launched more
than 300 rockets at Israel in response
to the killing of one of its senior
commanders in Beirut last month there
have been near daily crossborder clashes
between Israel and Hezbollah since the
October 7 Terror attacks committed by
Hamas ceasefire talks between Israel and
Hamas over Gaza have so far produced no
results let's work our way through some
of those issues with Shalom lipner he's
the Atlantic Council non-resident senior
fellow for the Middle East uh for the
Middle East programs and joins us uh
from New York City Welcome to DW shalom
Israel as we just um outlined there
fighting Wars on many fronts including
Gaza Lebanon and Iran against Iran and
its proxies how long can Israel
withstand such a prolonged series of
conflicts be with you um like anything
else I think it's a question of degrees
obviously the you know the goal of
Israel's adversaries is to overwhelm its
defenses the same time I think we've
seen in practice that you know Israel
maintains a formidable mounty layer
defense system has been effective in
stopping pretty much to a large extent
you know without stopping all tangible
damage we see having done by incoming
attacks over the past the past many
months um also Israel's not alone in
this we saw you know most uh most poly
in April when the United States Regional
allies French Germany as well a bunch of
people together put together this
coalition to repel and ranian attack of
hundreds of of incoming projectiles and
missiles so you know clearly it's
demonstrated success in being able to
withstand these you know these uh these
assaults the same time it you know very
much depends on what what is forthcoming
I mean the Iranians hasb you know hisb
says that there'll be a second phase to
their attack the Iranians just still
waiting for you know on Deck arguably to
to launch a strike as well theis as you
say so I mean you know much of it
depends on what it is that we see coming
but you know clearly if we're judging
from from previous previous experience
so far Israel's been able to withstand
most of the most of the damage that
these these parties have tried to
inflict and and as you say degree is
everything when we're talking about the
the size of this conflict and it's weird
that everybody keeps shooting but
everybody says we don't want this to
turn into allout
war very much so but I mean I you know I
think you you put your finger on you
know on the uh you hit the nail on the
head I think that uh all the parties are
concerned about what could happen if
this thing escalates beyond control um
you know we've seen just uh in the inent
over the past couple 48 hours I guess
more or less that um you know after
Israel preemptively struck saying that
they had intelligence indicating that
his Bala was about to attack that
morning um after after that particular
you know chip for Tat scal down we saw
both parties sort of declaring Victory
and moving on Israel saying they were
able to repel this attack um hisb saying
you know we were able to go through with
it as you know maybe not to the extented
plan but you know both parties were very
happy to declare mission accomplished
and move on aware of the dangers that
could you know come to pass if this
thing got very much out of control so
you know we are seeing those messages
that that that very much people do not
want this to escalate to a point where
you know they could lose control of what
happens next so that built-in Paradox a
word about then ceasefire talks on Gaza
Israel and Hamas still seem to be far
from each other especially regarding
control of the Philadelphia Corridor on
the Egypt Gaza border and the net sarim
Corridor that's the the zone of
occupation that Israel has set up to
separate uh the north uh of Gaza from
the rest of the territory these sticking
points seem to be non-negotiables for
both sides so are any further talks
therefore
pointless well I don't know that they're
pointless If Only from you know to take
off on your your previous question I
mean since neither party wants us to get
out of control one way to be able to
maintain that space is for these talks
to continue having said that you're
right they are hobbling um we do have
high level engagement it goes forward it
goes backwards um neither neither party
it's almost like a game of chicken
neither you know party wants to be
declared the ACT you know the person who
the actual spoiler who scuttled the
entire process um but there are in fact
interests in all parties of the table
some want this to succeed some do not
want it to succeed um you know and that
complicates the dynamic here the the one
the silver potential Silver Lining is
just as we have this sort of negative
spiral there's also a potential for a
de-escalatory cycle as well that if in
fact we reach a point where we get to a
ceasefire it could actually radiate to
the other theaters as well create you
know a better sense of calm but uh but
you know the the negotiations have been
very much two steps forward one step
back if not the reverse okay thanks for
guiding us through that Shalom lipner
from the Atlantic
Council pleasure to be with you